README.md, before:

# data_integratie_project
Authors: Valerie Verhalle and Anne Manders

### How to run the docker containers:
Make sure you have the Dockerfile, docker-compose.yml and app.py in the same directory(data_integratie_project) <br/><br/>
In the terminal, go to the data_integratie_project directory <br/>
Then, enter the following commands:<br/>
```
sudo docker service start
sudo docker-compose up
```
<br/>This should create the containers. They take up about 2.5 GB in storage space, so keep that in mind. <br/><br/>

Enter the database container by entering:<br/>
```mysql --host=127.0.0.1 --port=32000 -u root -p```<br/>
Then enter the password indicated in the YML file. <br/>
You should be located at the sql prompt in the database container. Verify this by entering:<br/>
```SHOW DATABASES;```<br/>
You should see *data_integratie_project* among them<br/>
```
USE data_integratie_project;
SHOW TABLES;
```
<br/>
You should see the table *variant*.<br/>
Enter 'exit' and press enter to leave mysql.<br/><br/>
    
The webapp should already be up and running, so click the '0.0.0.0:5000' link, generated by docker-compose(scroll up in the docker-compose output), to be redirected to open it in the browser.<br/><br/>

If you need to remake the containers:<br/>
  If docker-compose is still running, enter:<br/>
    ```sudo docker-compose down```
  <br/>Otherwise manually stop and remove the database and app container, like so:<br/>
    To get an overview of all created containers, enter:<br/>
    ```
    sudo docker container ls -a,
    ```
    <br/>Twice, once for each container enter:<br/>
    ```
    sudo docker stop <CONTAINER ID>
    sudo docker rm <CONTAINER ID>
    ```
    <br/>Then enter:<br/>
    ```sudo docker system prune -a```
   <br/> Then enter yes to let the pruning continue (!!!Be careful! This will remove ALL containers and images!!!) <br/>
    To restart the process of creating the containers, enter:<br/>
    ```sudo docker-compose up```
  
<br/>I did it this way because my computer couldn't handle 'docker-compose up --build', seeing as it generated those 2.5 GB all over again. But, if you have the processing power, you can also, instead of the manual removal, enter after 'docker-compose down':<br/>
  ```sudo docker-compose up --build```
<br/>
And that should do it! Good luck!

Commit message:

Added instructions for restarting the containers

README.md, after:

# data_integratie_project
Authors: Valerie Verhalle and Anne Manders

### How to run the docker containers:
Make sure you have the Dockerfile, docker-compose.yml and app.py in the same directory(data_integratie_project) <br/><br/>
In the terminal, go to the data_integratie_project directory <br/>
Then, enter the following commands:<br/>
```
sudo docker service start
sudo docker-compose up
```
<br/>This should create the containers. They take up about 2.5 GB in storage space, so keep that in mind. <br/><br/>

Enter the database container by entering:<br/>
```mysql --port=32000 -u root -p```<br/>
Then enter the password indicated in the YML file. <br/>
You should be located at the sql prompt in the database container. Verify this by entering:<br/>
```SHOW DATABASES;```<br/>
You should see *data_integratie_project* among them<br/>
```
USE data_integratie_project;
SHOW TABLES;
```
<br/>
You should see the table *variant*.<br/>
Enter 'exit' and press enter to leave mysql.<br/><br/>
    
The webapp should already be up and running, so click the '0.0.0.0:5000' link, generated by docker-compose(scroll up in the docker-compose output), to be redirected to open it in the browser.<br/><br/>

If you need to remake the containers:<br/>
  If docker-compose is still running, enter:<br/>
    ```sudo docker-compose down```
  <br/>Otherwise manually stop and remove the database and app container, like so:<br/>
    To get an overview of all created containers, enter:<br/>
    ```
    sudo docker container ls -a,
    ```
    <br/>Twice, once for each container enter:<br/>
    ```
    sudo docker stop <CONTAINER ID/NAME>
    sudo docker rm <CONTAINER ID/NAME>
    ```
    <br/>Then enter:<br/>
    ```sudo docker system prune -a```
   <br/> Then enter yes to let the pruning continue (!!!Be careful! This will remove ALL containers and images!!!) <br/>
    To restart the process of creating the containers, enter:<br/>
    ```sudo docker-compose up```
  
<br/>I did it this way because my computer couldn't handle 'docker-compose up --build', seeing as it generated those 2.5 GB all over again. But, if you have the processing power, you can also, instead of the manual removal, enter after 'docker-compose down':<br/>
  ```sudo docker-compose up --build```
<br/><br/>
To end the docker-compose up in the terminal, enter 'Ctr + c'. This closes the containers while saving their contents.<br/><br/>
To restart the containers, enter for each container:<br/>
```sudo docker start <CONTAINTER ID/NAME>```
<br/><br/>
DATABASE<br/>
Make a connection(enter the mysql prompt) to the database by entering the command:<br/>
```mysql --port=32000 -u root -p```<br/>
Then, inspect the database as you wish, for example by taking a look at the entire contents:<br/>
```
USE data_integratie_project;
SELECT * from variant;
```
<br/><br/>
APP<br/>
Go to a webbrowser and enter the following url:<br/>
```http://localhost:5000/```<br/>
It should show you the webpage!

And that should do it! Good luck!
